>> Jen Kramer: So
I told you all about Web servers.
You might be interested in how you would
go about getting a particular web server.
Well, the way you go about doing
that is through web hosting.
So your website is going to have a home.
You can run it on the computer that's
sitting right there in front of you, but
I can't recommend it.
Just cuz you can doesn't mean you should.
And if you were to run your website on
the computer in front of you, you'd have
people from all over the world getting
into your computer to see your website.
And possibly hacking into other things.
It's just not really a good idea.
So it's far better to go and
rent some space on a server somewhere.
And the way you would do
that is through web hosting.
And there are lots and lots and
lots of web hosts out there.
At this point,
as you're just starting out,
pretty much any of them
are perfectly okay to work with.
Some characteristics of a good web host.
So first of all, they're going to make
sure that they update that web server and
keep it secure.
It's generally the web host's problem to
update things like the operating system,
to operate the web server software.
To operate any other software that
happens to be running on the web server.
As you'll see later on, they are maybe
languages like PHP, or Python or something
like that that's running on the server or
databases that need to be updated.
The web host is going
to provide high uptime.
Uptime is a term that means that
the website is active and available.
That's pretty much all it means.
Every once in a while,
a server is going to, quote,
go down, meaning that nobody
can access your website.
Generally speaking, it happens to
everybody at some point during the year,
unless you pay lots of money to have
a very redundant sort of web host where,
if one computer goes down,
some other one can take over.
But for the cheap and cheerful route
at the beginning where we are,
chances are your website may go down for
just a few hours every year.
That's considered to be very high uptime.
You'll also wanna make sure that your web
host is providing you with, so-called,
bandwidth, a reasonable
amount of bandwidth.
Bandwidth is just, in this context,
it's actually a misuse of the better term,
which is data transfer.
Every file, and video and picture
that you put up on your website has
a certain amount of disk
space associated with it.
It's gonna cost money to transfer out.
This is very similar to the data plan
that you have on your mobile phone.
And so what you wanna be sure is that your
web host is giving you enough bandwidth
that it can accommodate whatever
traffic that you're going to have.
Again, at the very beginning as
you're building a portfolio site and
you're only having a few dozen visitors
a month, it's probably not an issue.
But it might be something you wanna
be aware of as you get bigger and
you get more successful.
And then finally, web hosts should
provide technical support as needed.
Typically speaking,
a web host will provide technical
support through an online chat,
or through the phone,
or through email or some type of
ticket system that they might have.
Some good web hosts that my students have
worked with, that they're very happy
with include SiteGround,
InMotion Hosting or DigitalOcean.
This is just a place to start, there are
lots of really good web hosts out there.
However, I recommend you
stay away from a few.
Personally, I would not
do business with GoDaddy.
I really don't like the marketing
that they've done for years.
But besides that, they're really
just not a very good web host.
Bluehost and
HostGator are also two that very commonly
come up in this sort of context.
But again, I've had a lot of people
who have had very bad experiences with
Bluehost and HostGator.
So personally,
I would stay away from them,
you might wanna take a look at
one of these for your hosting.
Now, how are we gonna go about
transferring the files that
we create here on the computer that's
in front of you, over to your web host?
That's typically done through something
called FTP, the file transfer protocol.
[COUGH] So basically you're going to
create those web files right there on your
computer.
You're gonna organize them in folders and
so forth.
And then you're gonna transfer all of
that through FTP up to the web host.
FileZilla is the software that's
typically used for doing this.
It's free, it's available on Mac and PC.
And it's pretty straightforward to use.
So the web host should tell you
everything you need to know in
order to create an FTP connection.
And to send your information from your
computer up to your web host safely and
securely.
So FileZilla might be a piece of
software that you'll need for that.
Another thing you're gonna
need is a domain name.
And the domain name, of course, is what do
we type in on the computer to actually get
to your website,
that's the website address.
There are a ton of different endings for
these, but the best known one is .com.
And so a lot of people like
to try to get a .com name.
Your host will provide you with
a temporary web address to get started.
It'll be something kinda long and
kinda weird looking.
It may have a tilde in it, that's that
funny character that goes in a curve.
It's not very memorable,
because it is very temporary.
It is expected that you're
gonna buy a domain name.
And there's so much more to say
about those particular domain names.
So I'll address those in the next video.